## A web application for text summarization 


###Sentence embeddings clustering for extractive text summarization.

This is a project for **Natural Language Processing course** (ods.ai, Huawei, december 2021)

Full project is presented in the Colab notebook Project.ipynb

### Introduction

Automatic summarization can be abstractive and extractive. 
Extractive summarization is created by extracting most relevant parts of the text and combining them together. 
Abstractive summarization is a generated by a pre-trained language model text. Several language models, fine-tuned on different news datasets and their scores are presented in the table:

Model | ROUGE-1 | ROUGE-L
---|---|---
`ria_copynet_10kk ` | 40.0 | 37.5
`ria_mbart` | 42.8 | 25.5
`gazeta_mbart` | 32.6 | 28.2
`rut5_base_sum_gazeta` | 32.2 | 28.1
`mT5-multilingual-XLSum` | 32.2164 | 26.1689


## Dataset

MLSUM is a large-scale MultiLingual SUMmarization dataset, obtained from online newspapers. 
It contains 1.5M+ article/summary pairs in five different languages - French, German, Spanish, Russian, Turkish.
[https://aclanthology.org/2020.emnlp-main.647/]

**MLSUM Ru**

The Russian part was used for the project.

Train | Val | Test
---|---|---
25556  | 750 | 757


#### modify_dataset.py

A small part of the train dataset (200 rows) was modified to form a set for clustering model evaluation. The result of clustering model summarization was put in the column 'summary' of the dataset, the original summary was removed.


```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

There are several command line arguments, that can be set:

| Argument | Long   |    Description                 | Default
|:----|:------------|-------------------------------|------------------
| `-d`   | `--dev_mode` | fast fun on a set of 30 samples | False
| `-s`   | `--slice` | number of rows for a file | 50
| `-n`   | `--number` | total number of rows to modify | 200


### Results

After test set evaluation the following scores were calculated.

Model | ROUGE-1 | ROUGE-L
---|---|---
`Clustering model` | 35.9 | 26.7



### Run application

A demo to try extractive summarization was created *right now in dev state = not working*. 

To run the web part run *run.sh* from the *app* folder: `cd app && ./run.sh`. 
The web interface will be available on *localhost:8080* in your browser.
